# Nerual-Data-Encoding
A working MATLAB model that encodes neural data using raster plots, spike trains and tuning curves.

Spike Trains of neurons are useful interpretations of understanding how neural data is encoded. Neural Encoding involves the changes in the firing properties of neurons in response to external stimuli. We use raster plots, peri-stimulus time histograms and tuning curves to understand these encoding properties. For various stimuli there are different observable features in these plots and results. The raster plot is used to examine the trial-by-trial variability of neural responses, the peri-stimulus time histogram helps examine the commonality between the features of these responses and the tuning curve captures the average response of the neuron variable to some sensory or motor feature. As a whole, they help encapsulate relevant data encoded in neural responses to different stimuli, which will be tested and analyzed in this experiment.

The computational model of the experiment in MATLAB is implemented to analyzing the data obtained on the companion website of the book. The dataset obtained provides neuronal spiking data: spike times, instruction cue times, “go cue” times and the direction of peripheral target in degrees. The dataset contains the variable “spike”, which contains the firing times (in seconds) of a single neuron for 47 trials of the same behavioral task. For each trial, the spike times are centered so that the start of movement coincides with a timestamp of 0 seconds. Because the neuron did not fire the same number of times for each trial, the data are stored in a struct, which is a data structure that can bundle vectors (or matrices) of different lengths.
Afterwards the average neural response is captured by the Peri-Stimulus Time Histogram in which all trials are centered relative to the start of movement and the time period is divided into a series of bars, each with a width of 100ms. Then a Tuning Curve is plotted that describes the neural activity (through firing rate) as an output of stimulus (orientation, direction dimension), which allows to interpret the preferred stimulus of a neuron i.e., the stimulus that yields that highest neural activity/firing rate. Typically, tuning curves are fit to a function such as a Gaussian curve or a cosine function. Because all measurements made in the real world come with errors, it is usually impossible to describe empirical data with a perfect functional relationship. Instead, we fit the data with a curve that represents a model of the proposed relationship.
